Documenting Downtown with New Media Fall 2019
NYU Department of Photography and Imaging
Tuesdays 5:15-9:00pm room 815
Professor Ari Melenciano
ajm943@nyu.edu (office hours by appointment)

Course Description
In this course, students will learn and tell the histories of Downtown Manhattan through a variety of experiments using new media technologies. Students will explore the city to tell the stories of different communities, neighborhoods, businesses and attractions through immersive forms and innovative practices. This course reimagines the use and composition of photography, as well as explores innovation in documentary strategies through the implementation of new media as forms of personal and historical expression.

Course Objectives
This course will expose students to creative technology and new media art through social engagement, critical thinking, and historical expression. This course will develop a variety of skills including: research, artivism, collaboration, and storytelling.

Grading
Attendance and participation: 30%
Completing weekly assignments: 40%
Contribution to final project: 30%

Pedagogy Style & Assignments
This course is designed for experimentation, exploration, collaboration and critical thinking. Assignments will require students to: engage with communities, explore different areas of downtown Manhattan, research areas/communities/social issues, experiment with storytelling techniques through new media technologies. The first half of the semester is a series of 1 week-long experiments in storytelling and new media, and then selecting one of those projects to expand on as the midterm project. The second half of the semester is designed to develop a new media project over the course of a few weeks that immersively tells the story of a downtown Manhattan neighborhood.

The final project will be a Zine that incorporates augmented reality to interactively tell a story of a downtown Manhattan neighborhood through sounds and visuals.

Statement of Academic Integrity:
Plagiarism is presenting someone else’s work as though it were your own.  More specifically, plagiarism is to present as your own: A sequence of words quoted without quotation marks from another writer or a paraphrased passage from another writer’s work or facts, ideas or images composed by someone else.

Accessibility:
Academic accommodations are available for students with documented disabilities.  Please contact the Moses Center for Students with Disabilities at 212 998-4980 for further information.


Syllabus (subject to change):


September 3: Introductions. Go over syllabus.

Part I - Experiments in New Media

September 10: Experiments in color | Share a story of your commute to or away from 721 Broadway (class) through a photo essay that consistently carries a particular color, in each photo. Presenting project in next class.

September 17: Experiments in sound | Presenting project in next class.

September 24: Experiments in Imaging  | Presenting project in next class.

October 1: Select one of the 3 experiments to create a full project.

October 8: Studio (develop midterm project)

-- NO CLASS OCTOBER 15--

October 22: Midterm Presentations & critiques
-------------------------------------------------------------

Part II - Storytelling in New Media

October 29: Create an audio visual mixtape, blending experimental video art with experimental soundscapes, to tell the story of a neighborhood within downtown New York City.

November 5: Studio (build audio visual mixtape)

 November 12: Class presentations & critiques

 November 19: Final Project: Create a Zine that incorporates AR (Augmented Reality) to tell the story of your assigned burrough of downtown New York City through visuals and sounds. Studio (build final project)

 November 26: Studio (build final project)

 December 3: Studio (build final project)

December 10: Final Presentations




Requirements and Responsibilities:
Attendance is mandatory. All students being present is conducive to an overall productive and informative learning environment. If you must miss class, I must be made aware 2 full weeks in advance to make arrangements. If you miss class, you will be responsible for catching up on missed information and work. All assignments must be uploaded online, so regardless of whether present in class, or not, assignments must be uploaded on time. One excused absence due to illness per semester is allowed. 3 absences are grounds for failure of the course (department-wide rule). Recreational uses of personal devices (phones, laptops, etc.) are not allowed unless stated otherwise. Punctuality is expected and included in class grade. 3 late arrivals = 1 unexcused absence. Excessive lateness and absences will be reflected in overall grade for the class. Assignments must be handed in on time. If the assignment is handed in late, 10% per late day, is deducted from the assignment’s grade. If you are ever concerned about completing a project or assignment, it is your responsibility to communicate with me, as we will review what needs to be done.
Important Note: The syllabus is subject to change throughout the semester. Please check frequently.


Resources:

